# Thesis Project
**Applications of NEAT algorithm for automatic gameplay of agents in deterministic and non-deterministic game environments**

This project was a life experience for two reasons: first, due to the vast research and knowledge it offered and second, because it was concluded during the coronavirus pandemic. My senior year as a student ended abruptly right before finishing my undergraduate studies. Regardless, after hours of reading, discussing, brainstorming and programming, I am excited to have finished this project.

I would like to thank my professor Dr. Dionisios Sotiropoulos for accepting my original proposition for the subject and guiding me during this time. I would also like to thank my parents John and Maria, for motivating me to keep up the hard work and bearing with me during the quarantine. Lastly, I want to express my gratitude for SethBling, an American YouTuber for publishing the video “MarI/O – Machine Learning for Video Games” which was my original inspiration for the subject of this project.

On this project, we study applications of the NEAT algorithm in deterministic and non-deterministic game environments. First, we look at an overview of the NEAT algorithm, how it works, design principles and the challenges that come with implementation. Next, we introduce a custom two-dimensional game in Python for two players: blue and red. We lay down the basic rules and structure, in order to create an environment suitable for neuroevolution. Finally, we study five training cases, where the blue and red player are given several tasks that must be achieved through the evolution of neural networks.
